# Release 2.3.1

# API changes

## `BigRational` implements now `Serializable`

The `BigRational` class implements now the `Serializable` interface and can be serialized
with the standard Java approach using `ObjectInputStream` and deserialized using `ObjectOutputStream`.

## `BigRational` extends now `Number`

The `BigRational` class extends now from `Number` and provides the following standard methods:
- `int intValue()`
- `long longValue()`
- `float floatValue()`
- `double doubleValue()`


# Bugfixes

## `BigRational.toFloat()` and `BigRational.toDouble()` with large nominators/denominators

The methods `BigRational.toFloat()` and `BigRational.toDouble()` failed to convert large nominators/denominators
into valid `float`, respectively `double` numbers.

For example:
```java
BigRational x = BigRational.valueOf("8.804462619980757911125181749462772084351");
System.out.println("rational : " + x.toRationalString());
System.out.println("float    : " + x.toFloat());
```

would print:
```
rational : 8804462619980757911125181749462772084351/1000000000000000000000000000000000000000
float    : NaN
```

After the fix this example prints:
```
rational : 8804462619980757911125181749462772084351/1000000000000000000000000000000000000000
float    : 8.804462
```


## `BigRational.toIntegerRationalString()` with small negative numbers

Negative rational numbers smaller than 1 where printed without `-` sign.

For example:
```java
BigRational v = valueOf(-1, 2);
System.out.println("small negative rational toString(): " + v);
System.out.println("small negative rational toIntegerRationalString(): " + v);
```

would print:
```
small negative rational toString(): -0.5
small negative rational toIntegerRationalString(): 1/2
```

After the fix this example prints:
```
small negative rational toString(): -0.5
small negative rational toIntegerRationalString(): -1/2
```


## `BigDecimalMath.root(x, n)` faster with large n

The `BigDecimalMath.root(BigDecimal, BigDecimal, MathContext)` function converged very slowly for larger values of n.

This was due to a bad initial value for the Newton-Raphson approximation.

Now the initial value for the Newton-Raphson approximation is calculated using double precision.
If the initial value cannot be calculated using double precision the function pow(x, 1/n) is used to calculate the root.


# Enhancements

No enhancements.


# Examples

Note: The example code is available on github, but not part of the big-math library.

No changes in the examples.
